docs/basics/reforis/screenshots/reforis.md, before:

---
board: shield, mox, omnia, 1.x
---
# reForis Screenshots

## Router overview

![Router overview](101_reforis_overview.png)

## WiFi configuration

![WiFi configuration](102_reforis_wifi.png)

## WAN configuration

![WAN configuration](103_reforis_wan.png)

## LAN configuration

![LAN configuration](104_reforis_lan.png)

## DNS configuration

![DNS configuration](105_reforis_dns.png)

## Interface assignement

![Interface assignement](106_reforis_interfaces.png)

## Guest network configuration

![Guest network configuration](107_reforis_guest.png)

## Password management

![Password management](108_reforis_password.png)

## Region and time settings

![Region and time settings](109_reforis_time.png)

## Notifications configuration

![Notifications configuration](110_reforis_notification.png)

## Reboot button page

![Reboot button page](111_reforis_reboot.png)

## Snapshots management

![Snapshots management](112_reforis_snapshots.png)

## Diagnostics generator

![Diagnostics generator](113_reforis_diag.png)

## Updates configuration

![Updates configuration](114_reforis_updates_settings.png)

## Manual update trigger

![Manual update trigger](115_reforis_updates.png)

## Packages selection

![Packages selection](116_reforis_packages.png)

## Language selection

![Language selection](117_reforis_languages.png)

## Speed test results

![Speed test results](118_reforis_speedtest.png)

## Speed test configuration

![Speed test configuration](119_reforis_auto_speed_test.png)

## VPN server configuration

![VPN server configuration](120_reforis_vpn_server.png)

## Management of clients for VPN server

![Management of clients for VPN server](121_reforis_vpn_client_reg.png)

## VPN client configuration

![VPN client configuration](122_reforis_vpn_client.png)

## Remote access configuration

![Remote access configuration](123_reforis_remote_access.png)

## Management of tokens for remote access

![Management of tokens for remote access](124_reforis_remote_tokens.png)

## Management of remotelly managed devices

![Management of remotelly managed devices](125_reforis_remote_devices.png)

## Netboot configuration

![Netboot configuration](126_reforis_netboot.png)

## Data collection settings

![Data collection settings](127_reforis_data_collect.png)

## About page

![About page](128_reforis_about.png)

Commit message:

reforis: add warning that screenshots comes from Turris OS 5.2.0
Turris OS 5.2.0 was not released and it can confuse users.

docs/basics/reforis/screenshots/reforis.md, after:

---
board: shield, mox, omnia, 1.x
---
# reForis Screenshots

!!! important
    Screenshots were taken from the development version of Turris OS 5.2.0.
    It includes slightly redesigned reForis, a new Overview tab, and more features.
    Users of Turris Shield can enjoy these features already.

## Router overview

![Router overview](101_reforis_overview.png)

## WiFi configuration

![WiFi configuration](102_reforis_wifi.png)

## WAN configuration

![WAN configuration](103_reforis_wan.png)

## LAN configuration

![LAN configuration](104_reforis_lan.png)

## DNS configuration

![DNS configuration](105_reforis_dns.png)

## Interface assignement

![Interface assignement](106_reforis_interfaces.png)

## Guest network configuration

![Guest network configuration](107_reforis_guest.png)

## Password management

![Password management](108_reforis_password.png)

## Region and time settings

![Region and time settings](109_reforis_time.png)

## Notifications configuration

![Notifications configuration](110_reforis_notification.png)

## Reboot button page

![Reboot button page](111_reforis_reboot.png)

## Snapshots management

![Snapshots management](112_reforis_snapshots.png)

## Diagnostics generator

![Diagnostics generator](113_reforis_diag.png)

## Updates configuration

![Updates configuration](114_reforis_updates_settings.png)

## Manual update trigger

![Manual update trigger](115_reforis_updates.png)

## Packages selection

![Packages selection](116_reforis_packages.png)

## Language selection

![Language selection](117_reforis_languages.png)

## Speed test results

![Speed test results](118_reforis_speedtest.png)

## Speed test configuration

![Speed test configuration](119_reforis_auto_speed_test.png)

## VPN server configuration

![VPN server configuration](120_reforis_vpn_server.png)

## Management of clients for VPN server

![Management of clients for VPN server](121_reforis_vpn_client_reg.png)

## VPN client configuration

![VPN client configuration](122_reforis_vpn_client.png)

## Remote access configuration

![Remote access configuration](123_reforis_remote_access.png)

## Management of tokens for remote access

![Management of tokens for remote access](124_reforis_remote_tokens.png)

## Management of remotelly managed devices

![Management of remotelly managed devices](125_reforis_remote_devices.png)

## Netboot configuration

![Netboot configuration](126_reforis_netboot.png)

## Data collection settings

![Data collection settings](127_reforis_data_collect.png)

## About page

![About page](128_reforis_about.png)
