docs/basics/reforis/dns/reforis-dns.md, before:

---
board: mox, omnia, 1.x, shield
competency: novice
---
# DNS settings in reForis

<!--what-is-dns-start-->

## What is DNS?

The [Domain Name System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System)
(DNS) is a system which translates name addresses (such as `www.turris.cz`)
to [IP addresses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP_address) (e.g.
`217.31.192.69` for [IPv4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv4) or
`2001:1488:ac15:ff80::69` for [IPv6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6))
and vice versa. It is one of the key parts of the Internet.

For example, if you want to visit a webpage in your browser your computer
sends a DNS request to the "nearest" DNS server. This server responds directly
(if it has already acquired the address) or it recursively queries other DNS
servers (the ISP's ones or the authoritative ones which maintain the DNS
records) and then sends the address to your computer.

In most cases, your computer sends DNS queries to your router (ie. Turris)
which must be configured properly. This documentation page explains how to
set it.

## What is DNSSEC?

Plain DNS responses have a big problem. Their data is transmitted without any
measure for their integrity. It means if it is changed during the transfer you
can't detect it in any way. Some "bad guy" sitting on the wire can send you his
own DNS record instead of the true one and you have no chance to disclose it.
This attack is known as
[DNS spoofing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_spoofing).

For example, you request the IP address(es) for `www.turris.cz` and you should
currently get that it is an alias for turris.cz and it has the addresses
`217.31.192.69` and `2001:1488:ac15:ff80::69`. But somebody (e.g.
a dissatisfied employee at your ISP) can change it to something else and your
browser displays another page than you want.

The solution to this problem is
[DNSSEC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System_Security_Extensions).
It is based on
[electronic signatures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_signature)
and allows to verify whether a DNS response:

* is based on authoritative data, and
* is unchanged (has its original form).

DNSSEC works properly only if the whole DNS record chain (from the
[root zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_root_zone) to the records
you are requesting) is consistently signed and all DNS servers are correctly
configured. The root zone keys are signed by complicated and secure procedures
called [Root KSK Ceremonies](https://www.iana.org/dnssec/ceremonies). The root
zone signs the lower level zones (for
[TLDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Top-level_domain)) and so on.

To make DNSSEC work properly is also necessary to support it by all DNS
servers/resolvers in the chain between you and the authoritative DNS servers.
This usually include your router and your ISP's DNS servers (if used). Read
below how to set your Turris to work with DNSSEC.

<!--what-is-dns-end-->

## DNS in reForis

Turris uses its own DNS resolver with DNSSEC support. It is capable of working
independently or it can forward your DNS queries to your ISP's DNS resolver.
Usually, it is better to use the ISP's resolver in networks where it works
properly. If it does not work for some reason, it is necessary to use direct
resolving without forwarding.

### DNS forwarding

DNS forwarding is enabled by default. It means all DNS queries are sent to your
ISP's DNS forwarding servers (or other DNS forwarders if set so – see below).
This is the very recommended setting and should be left unchanged unless there
is a very good reason to change it.

*What may be such reason? For example, DNSSEC on your ISP's DNS servers is
broken and the DNS over TLS (_DoT_, see below) port is blocked.*

![DNS forwarding](forwarding.png)

### Predefined DNS forwarders

There are multiple forwarders which can be used:

![DNS forwarders](forwarders.png)

Other forwarders than your ISP's one are used via a special technology named
[DNS over TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_over_TLS) (DoT). Regular DNS
queries and responses (including the DNSSEC ones) are transferred in a plain
format and can be intercepted by anybody who has access to the lines and nodes
(including your ISP of course). If you want to keep your DNS communication in
secret you can use DoT/TLS instead.

!!! notice
    DNS over TLS keeps DNS traffic in secret but is a bit slower than the
    standard DNS communication.

* [CZ.NIC](https://www.nic.cz/) is the Czech national domain registry operator
  (and the creator of your Turris).

* [Cloudflare](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloudflare) is a world-wide cloud
  service provider.

* [Google](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Public_DNS) is a well-known
  and ubiquitous Internet company.

* Quad9 Filtered is a forwarder which blocks domains with malicious content
  (like phishing or malware). It is provided by
  [Quad9](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quad9), a non-profit organization
  dedicated to secure DNS services.

* Quad9 Unfiltered is also forwarder by [Quad9](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quad9)
  but without blocking malicious domains. Use it if you encounter problems
  with blocking legitimate content by the Quad Filtered forwarder.

!!! important
    Information about privacy and data processing on CZ.NIC ODVR servers
    [is here](https://www.nic.cz/odvr/). The other servers are listed in
    a [summary table](https://dnsprivacy.org/wiki/display/DP/DNS+Privacy+Public+Resolvers)
    with links to particular privacy policies.

### Custom forwarder

If none of the predefined forwarders fits your needs there is also
a possibility to set a custom forwarder. Press the _Add custom
forwarder_ button (see the above picture) to specify it.

![Custom forwarder](custom.png)

You can specify up to two IPv4 addresses and two IPv6 addresses. At least one
of addresses (of any version) must be always specified. There are the
following types of TLS:

* _No TLS_ – the standard DNS protocol is used (no encryption).
* _Hostname_ – DoT is used and the DNS forwarders are validated using
  the hostname in the TLS certificates (all of the forwarders must have
  the same name).
* _Pin_ – DoT is used and the DNS forwarders are validated using the
  public key pin of the certificate (which must be the same for all forwarder
  addresses).

!!! important
    If you use the third option the pin must be a Base64-encoded
    SHA-256 hash as defined in [RFC 7469](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7469).

![DoT with TLS pin](pin.png)

### Disabling DNSSEC

Disabling DNSSEC is highly discouraged. It should be done only temporarily in
these cases:

1. Your ISP's DNS servers are broken and you can't use any other forwarding
   options nor to disable forwarding at all (typically your ISP blocks the
   ports used for DNS and DoT communication with "foreign" servers). In such
   case request your ISP to fix its DNS servers or consider to migrate to
   another ISP.

2. You experience strange behavior where you browse the web or use other
   Internet services and you suspect it may be caused by broken DNSSEC. If
   disabling DNSSEC fix these problems it converts to (1). Otherwise you should
   reenable DNSSEC and investigate elsewhere.

![DNSSEC](dnssec.png)

*If you try to uncheck the _Enable DNSSEC_ checkbox you will have to confirm
that you would really like to do that.*

![DNSSEC disable warning](dnssec-warn.png)

### DHCP clients in DNS

You can enable DHCP client names in the local DNS. This is disabled by default.
If you enable this you will able to resolve IP addresses for local hostnames.
It can be useful if computers provide various services to each other
(e.g. file sharing, DLNA media services...).

![DHCP clients in DNS](dhcp.png)

When a computer requests its IP address via DHCP it sends its hostname (this
is the name you can see at the _LAN_ page in the _DHCP clients_ list).
Remember each computer in your LAN must have an unique name to work properly.
Ambiguous names will lead to unpredictable results.

## Connection test

After you have set the DNS settings you can test the connectivity. Remember
to press the _Save_ button before you start the test. Note that sometimes it
takes a while before the connection is fully initialized. So it might be
useful to wait for a while before running this test.

![Connection test results](test.png)

What particular results mean:

* _DNS_ – your router can successfully execute DNS queries and get responses,
* _DNSSEC_ – your router can successfully execute DNSSEC queries and get
  correct (trustfully signed and intact) responses.

Commit message:

basics/reforis/dns: Add warning about 3rd party forwarders

docs/basics/reforis/dns/reforis-dns.md, after:

---
board: mox, omnia, 1.x, shield
competency: novice
---
# DNS settings in reForis

<!--what-is-dns-start-->

## What is DNS?

The [Domain Name System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System)
(DNS) is a system which translates name addresses (such as `www.turris.cz`)
to [IP addresses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP_address) (e.g.
`217.31.192.69` for [IPv4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv4) or
`2001:1488:ac15:ff80::69` for [IPv6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6))
and vice versa. It is one of the key parts of the Internet.

For example, if you want to visit a webpage in your browser your computer
sends a DNS request to the "nearest" DNS server. This server responds directly
(if it has already acquired the address) or it recursively queries other DNS
servers (the ISP's ones or the authoritative ones which maintain the DNS
records) and then sends the address to your computer.

In most cases, your computer sends DNS queries to your router (ie. Turris)
which must be configured properly. This documentation page explains how to
set it.

## What is DNSSEC?

Plain DNS responses have a big problem. Their data is transmitted without any
measure for their integrity. It means if it is changed during the transfer you
can't detect it in any way. Some "bad guy" sitting on the wire can send you his
own DNS record instead of the true one and you have no chance to disclose it.
This attack is known as
[DNS spoofing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_spoofing).

For example, you request the IP address(es) for `www.turris.cz` and you should
currently get that it is an alias for turris.cz and it has the addresses
`217.31.192.69` and `2001:1488:ac15:ff80::69`. But somebody (e.g.
a dissatisfied employee at your ISP) can change it to something else and your
browser displays another page than you want.

The solution to this problem is
[DNSSEC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System_Security_Extensions).
It is based on
[electronic signatures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_signature)
and allows to verify whether a DNS response:

* is based on authoritative data, and
* is unchanged (has its original form).

DNSSEC works properly only if the whole DNS record chain (from the
[root zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_root_zone) to the records
you are requesting) is consistently signed and all DNS servers are correctly
configured. The root zone keys are signed by complicated and secure procedures
called [Root KSK Ceremonies](https://www.iana.org/dnssec/ceremonies). The root
zone signs the lower level zones (for
[TLDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Top-level_domain)) and so on.

To make DNSSEC work properly is also necessary to support it by all DNS
servers/resolvers in the chain between you and the authoritative DNS servers.
This usually include your router and your ISP's DNS servers (if used). Read
below how to set your Turris to work with DNSSEC.

<!--what-is-dns-end-->

## DNS in reForis

Turris uses its own DNS resolver with DNSSEC support. It is capable of working
independently or it can forward your DNS queries to your ISP's DNS resolver.
Usually, it is better to use the ISP's resolver in networks where it works
properly. If it does not work for some reason, it is necessary to use direct
resolving without forwarding.

### DNS forwarding

DNS forwarding is enabled by default. It means all DNS queries are sent to your
ISP's DNS forwarding servers (or other DNS forwarders if set so – see below).
This is the very recommended setting and should be left unchanged unless there
is a very good reason to change it.

*What may be such reason? For example, DNSSEC on your ISP's DNS servers is
broken and the DNS over TLS (_DoT_, see below) port is blocked.*

![DNS forwarding](forwarding.png)

### Predefined DNS forwarders

There are multiple forwarders which can be used:

![DNS forwarders](forwarders.png)

Other forwarders than your ISP's one are used via a special technology named
[DNS over TLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNS_over_TLS) (DoT). Regular DNS
queries and responses (including the DNSSEC ones) are transferred in a plain
format and can be intercepted by anybody who has access to the lines and nodes
(including your ISP of course). If you want to keep your DNS communication in
secret you can use DoT/TLS instead.

!!! notice
    DNS over TLS keeps DNS traffic in secret but is a bit slower than the
    standard DNS communication.

* [CZ.NIC](https://www.nic.cz/) is the Czech national domain registry operator
  (and the creator of your Turris).

* [Cloudflare](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloudflare) is a world-wide cloud
  service provider.

* [Google](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Public_DNS) is a well-known
  and ubiquitous Internet company.

* Quad9 Filtered is a forwarder which blocks domains with malicious content
  (like phishing or malware). It is provided by
  [Quad9](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quad9), a non-profit organization
  dedicated to secure DNS services.

* Quad9 Unfiltered is also forwarder by [Quad9](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quad9)
  but without blocking malicious domains. Use it if you encounter problems
  with blocking legitimate content by the Quad Filtered forwarder.

!!! important
    Information about privacy and data processing on CZ.NIC ODVR servers
    [is here](https://www.nic.cz/odvr/). The other servers are listed in
    a [summary table](https://dnsprivacy.org/wiki/display/DP/DNS+Privacy+Public+Resolvers)
    with links to particular privacy policies.

!!! warning
    We cannot guarantee the functionality of third-party DNS forwarders.
    Various problems have been encountered, for example, broken DNSSEC
    (missing or expired signatures, etc.) or slow responses. If you
    have such troubles, please try to choose another forwarder before
    reporting the problems to us.


### Custom forwarder

If none of the predefined forwarders fits your needs there is also
a possibility to set a custom forwarder. Press the _Add custom
forwarder_ button (see the above picture) to specify it.

![Custom forwarder](custom.png)

You can specify up to two IPv4 addresses and two IPv6 addresses. At least one
of addresses (of any version) must be always specified. There are the
following types of TLS:

* _No TLS_ – the standard DNS protocol is used (no encryption).
* _Hostname_ – DoT is used and the DNS forwarders are validated using
  the hostname in the TLS certificates (all of the forwarders must have
  the same name).
* _Pin_ – DoT is used and the DNS forwarders are validated using the
  public key pin of the certificate (which must be the same for all forwarder
  addresses).

!!! important
    If you use the third option the pin must be a Base64-encoded
    SHA-256 hash as defined in [RFC 7469](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7469).

![DoT with TLS pin](pin.png)

### Disabling DNSSEC

Disabling DNSSEC is highly discouraged. It should be done only temporarily in
these cases:

1. Your ISP's DNS servers are broken and you can't use any other forwarding
   options nor to disable forwarding at all (typically your ISP blocks the
   ports used for DNS and DoT communication with "foreign" servers). In such
   case request your ISP to fix its DNS servers or consider to migrate to
   another ISP.

2. You experience strange behavior where you browse the web or use other
   Internet services and you suspect it may be caused by broken DNSSEC. If
   disabling DNSSEC fix these problems it converts to (1). Otherwise you should
   reenable DNSSEC and investigate elsewhere.

![DNSSEC](dnssec.png)

*If you try to uncheck the _Enable DNSSEC_ checkbox you will have to confirm
that you would really like to do that.*

![DNSSEC disable warning](dnssec-warn.png)

### DHCP clients in DNS

You can enable DHCP client names in the local DNS. This is disabled by default.
If you enable this you will able to resolve IP addresses for local hostnames.
It can be useful if computers provide various services to each other
(e.g. file sharing, DLNA media services...).

![DHCP clients in DNS](dhcp.png)

When a computer requests its IP address via DHCP it sends its hostname (this
is the name you can see at the _LAN_ page in the _DHCP clients_ list).
Remember each computer in your LAN must have an unique name to work properly.
Ambiguous names will lead to unpredictable results.

## Connection test

After you have set the DNS settings you can test the connectivity. Remember
to press the _Save_ button before you start the test. Note that sometimes it
takes a while before the connection is fully initialized. So it might be
useful to wait for a while before running this test.

![Connection test results](test.png)

What particular results mean:

* _DNS_ – your router can successfully execute DNS queries and get responses,
* _DNSSEC_ – your router can successfully execute DNSSEC queries and get
  correct (trustfully signed and intact) responses.
