docs/basics/models.md, before:

# Turris routers

There are several Turris routers. This page lists them in order as they were
produced.

## Turris 1.X

### Turris 1.0

First-ever produced Turris router, part of the original security research,
given away in the Czech Republic for a symbolic price of 1 CZK.
Started with dual-core processor Freescale P2020, 1.2 GHz with 2 GB DDR3 RAM.
Specific details can be found on the [separate page](../hw/turris-1x/turris-1x.md).

![Turris 1.0](turris-10.jpg)

### Turris 1.1
Next revision of the same router featured one USB 3.0 port on the front panel
and two internally. There is also SIM card slot on the board and a stronger
power supply (12 V).

It was still part of the same program research project. More details are
available to read [here](../hw/turris-1x/turris-1x.md).

![Turris 1.1](turris-11.jpg)

## Turris Omnia

The first commercial Turris router. Originally crowdfunded on
[Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/turris-omnia-hi-performance-open-source-router#/)
with different case colors. Raised more than $1.2M and shortly after the
campain entered retail sales.

It uses dual-core ARMv7 CPU Marvell Armada 385 at 1.6 GHz with 2 GB RAM.
You can see more details on the [separate page](../hw/omnia/omnia.md).

During the course of history, there were several hardware
[revisions](../hw/omnia/revisions.md) with color being the most notable
difference.

![Turris Omnia](omnia.jpg)

## Turris MOX

Following the success of Turris Omnia, Turris MOX was also offered on
[Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/turris-mox-modular-open-source-router#/)
featuring unprecedented modularity.

It uses dual-core ARMv8 CPU Marvell Armada 3720 with 512 MB/1 GB RAM. You can
read more about Turris MOX on the [separate page](../hw/mox/intro.md).

![Turris MOX](../hw/mox/mox.jpg)

## Turris Shield

Single-purpose device based on hardware platform of Turris MOX targeting people
who wants to easily secure their entire home or office without having to change
their modem or router.

It uses dual-core ARMv8 CPU Marvell Armada 3720 with 512 MB RAM. You can
read more about Turris Shield on the [separate page](../hw/shield/shield.md).

![Turris Shield](../hw/shield/shield.png)

Commit message:

Omnia NG: Add model page

docs/basics/models.md, after:

# Turris routers

There are several Turris routers. This page lists them in order as they were
produced.

## Turris 1.X

### Turris 1.0

First-ever produced Turris router, part of the original security research,
given away in the Czech Republic for a symbolic price of 1 CZK.
Started with dual-core processor Freescale P2020, 1.2 GHz with 2 GB DDR3 RAM.
Specific details can be found on the [separate page](../hw/turris-1x/turris-1x.md).

![Turris 1.0](turris-10.jpg)

### Turris 1.1
Next revision of the same router featured one USB 3.0 port on the front panel
and two internally. There is also SIM card slot on the board and a stronger
power supply (12 V).

It was still part of the same program research project. More details are
available to read [here](../hw/turris-1x/turris-1x.md).

![Turris 1.1](turris-11.jpg)

## Turris Omnia

The first commercial Turris router. Originally crowdfunded on
[Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/turris-omnia-hi-performance-open-source-router#/)
with different case colors. Raised more than $1.2M and shortly after the
campaign entered retail sales.

It uses dual-core ARMv7 CPU Marvell Armada 385 at 1.6 GHz with 2 GB RAM.
You can see more details on the [separate page](../hw/omnia/omnia.md).

During the course of history, there were several hardware
[revisions](../hw/omnia/revisions.md) with color being the most notable
difference.

![Turris Omnia](omnia.jpg)

## Turris MOX

Following the success of Turris Omnia, Turris MOX was also offered on
[Indiegogo](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/turris-mox-modular-open-source-router#/)
featuring unprecedented modularity.

It uses dual-core ARMv8 CPU Marvell Armada 3720 with 512 MB/1 GB RAM. You can
read more about Turris MOX on the [separate page](../hw/mox/intro.md).

![Turris MOX](../hw/mox/mox.jpg)

## Turris Shield

Single-purpose device based on hardware platform of Turris MOX targeting people
who wants to easily secure their entire home or office without having to change
their modem or router.

It uses dual-core ARMv8 CPU Marvell Armada 3720 with 512 MB RAM. You can
read more about Turris Shield on the [separate page](../hw/shield/shield.md).

![Turris Shield](../hw/shield/shield.png)

## Turris Omnia NG

Next generation of turris Omnia. Building on top of Turris Omnia's success, Omnia
NG targets the same customers and use-cases as the original Omnia. Just with
more powerful hardware.

It uses a quad-core ARMv8 CPU Qualcomm IPQ 9574 with 2 GB RAM. You can see more
details on the [separate page](../hw/omnia-ng/omnia-ng.md).

![Turris Omnia NG](../hw/omnia-ng/omnia-ng.png)
