docs/basics/first-setup/mox-first-setup.md, before:

---
board: mox
---
# First setup of Turris MOX

## Before you start

{! basics/first-setup/mox-first-setup-warning.md !}

## Connecting cables

As MOX is really modular and therefore what is LAN and what is WAN side could
be a little bit tricky. Decision adheres to the following rules.

* If MOX has just one Ethernet port it is LAN
* If MOX has SFP, SFP is WAN and the rest of ports is LAN (including
  Ethernet port next to the power supply on MOX A)
* If it has switch(es) and no SFP, then all ports in switch are LAN and the
  port next to the power source on MOX A is WAN

When setting up your MOX, connect the cable from your Internet service provider
to WAN port and connect just your trusted device (the computer which you use
to setup the MOX) to one of the available LAN ports.

!!! caution
    You may also use your LAN to interconnect the computer and the MOX. But
    ensure that there is no (other) DHCP server in the LAN as it would
    interfere with the one in your MOX. **There is no password during initial
    setup**. To eliminate potential security risks, setup your MOX first, go
    through the update procedure and connect other untrusted devices only
    afterwards.

{! basics/first-setup/cables.md !}

### One Ethernet port device

The trickiest case is if you have **only one Ethernet port**. Therefore we
created a [special guide](mox-cpu-only.md) for the case with just one Ethernet
port such as MOX Start, MOX Pocket Wi-Fi or MOX Power Wi-Fi.

## Entering guide

Once you have all cables connected, you can power up your MOX by connecting the
power supply. Wait for your MOX to boot up. During boot LED will shine red and
once booted up, it will start blinking in heartbeat pattern
(blink-blink-pause).

**First boot can take a while**. During that, MOX detects hardware and decides
what is LAN and what is WAN based on your hardware configuration as described
above. It also tries to detect running DHCP server on LAN side and if it finds
one, it will switch itself into DHCP client mode. If it doesn't find one, it
will configure itself as DHCP server.

!!! tip
	If you have a working zero-conf on your computer, you can access your
    router via <http://turris.local> address.

When booted, you can access the first-run wizard by using a web browser and
entering as URL address of your router. In case of MOX running as DHCP server, web
interface will be at <http://192.168.1.1>.

Commit message:

basics/first-setup: Add documentation about ethernetless initial configuration
This should cover users without Ethernet socket in their laptops. It is
only secondary way of initial configuration. Ethernet port is still the
primary way to configure router.

docs/basics/first-setup/mox-first-setup.md, after:

---
board: mox
---
# First setup of Turris MOX

## Before you start

{! basics/first-setup/mox-first-setup-warning.md !}

## Connecting cables

As MOX is really modular and therefore what is LAN and what is WAN side could
be a little bit tricky. Decision adheres to the following rules.

* If MOX has just one Ethernet port it is LAN
* If MOX has SFP, SFP is WAN and the rest of ports is LAN (including
  Ethernet port next to the power supply on MOX A)
* If it has switch(es) and no SFP, then all ports in switch are LAN and the
  port next to the power source on MOX A is WAN

When setting up your MOX, connect the cable from your Internet service provider
to WAN port and connect just your trusted device (the computer which you use
to setup the MOX) to one of the available LAN ports.

!!! caution
    You may also use your LAN to interconnect the computer and the MOX. But
    ensure that there is no (other) DHCP server in the LAN as it would
    interfere with the one in your MOX. **There is no password during initial
    setup**. To eliminate potential security risks, setup your MOX first, go
    through the update procedure and connect other untrusted devices only
    afterwards.

{! basics/first-setup/cables.md !}

!!! tip
    There is also a way to configure Turris Mox over Wi-Fi by using [a configuration
    file and a USB drive](./ethernetless.md).

### One Ethernet port device

The trickiest case is if you have **only one Ethernet port**. Therefore we
created a [special guide](mox-cpu-only.md) for the case with just one Ethernet
port such as MOX Start, MOX Pocket Wi-Fi or MOX Power Wi-Fi.

## Entering guide

Once you have all cables connected, you can power up your MOX by connecting the
power supply. Wait for your MOX to boot up. During boot LED will shine red and
once booted up, it will start blinking in heartbeat pattern
(blink-blink-pause).

**First boot can take a while**. During that, MOX detects hardware and decides
what is LAN and what is WAN based on your hardware configuration as described
above. It also tries to detect running DHCP server on LAN side and if it finds
one, it will switch itself into DHCP client mode. If it doesn't find one, it
will configure itself as DHCP server.

!!! tip
	If you have a working zero-conf on your computer, you can access your
    router via <http://turris.local> address.

When booted, you can access the first-run wizard by using a web browser and
entering as URL address of your router. In case of MOX running as DHCP server, web
interface will be at <http://192.168.1.1>.
